# WG21 Israel Mirror Committee Meeting Summaries

WG21 Israel Mirror Committee discussion meetings usually occor every two weeks.

If you're interested in getting involved, please send an email to:     nb@corecpp.org.il


__The next WG21 Israel Mirror Committee meeting is scheduled for:__

 __18'th of April, 2021 
 <br/>
20:00-21:00 UTC+3 (17:00-18:00 UTC)__

<br/>

- [April 18th, 2020](#april-18th-2021)
- [April 4th, 2020](#april-4th-2021)
- [March 21th, 2020](#march-21th-2021)
- [March 7th, 2020](#march-7th-2021)
- [February 21th, 2020](#february-21th-2021)
- [February 7th, 2020](#february-07th-2021)
- [January 17th, 2020](#january-17th-2021)
- [January 3th, 2020](#january-3th-2021)

<br/><br/><br/>
<!--
# February 21th, 2021
## Draft agenda:
| |
|-|
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |
|  |
## Meeting summary: 
### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar
-  Shachar Shemesh
### Minutes:
|SF|F|N|A|SA|
|-|-|-|-|-|
|0 | 0 |0 |0 |0 |
-->

# April 18th, 2021
## Draft agenda:
| |
|-|
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |
| General updates on:  Static Reflection, Executors, Pattern Matching |
|  |
## Meeting summary: 
### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar
-  Shachar Shemesh
-  Amir Kirsh

### Minutes:
- General updates: 
  - P2320 (Static Reflection) Moved forward in SG7.
  - Pattern matching will probebly rebase on Herb's utility paper. 
  - Executors are currently on hold.
- We focused on "[P2320R0](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2021/p2320r0.pdf): The Syntax of Static Reflection", which moved forward in SG7.
- We have decided to create a "Static Reflection Usage Report", on which we will collect exampels and feedback.
- Created a google doc which contains resources & examples: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BwJy071WERGQedn8oMa11xnP15XM5l6nKxNS2jABx6Q/edit?usp=sharing


# April 4th, 2021
## Draft agenda:
| |
|-|
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |
|  |
## Meeting summary: 
### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar
-  Shachar Shemesh

### Minutes:

- We've discussed [P2320R0](https://wg21.link/p2320):	The Syntax of Static Reflection
- we discussed the different options for metaprogramming & reflection syntex.
  
  Dvir have presented usage examples he created: 

  https://gist.github.com/dvirtz/dcb39b9175e90ae94b1008928f45a16c (Thanks, Dvir!)
  
- Papers came up in the discussion:
  - [P2320R0](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2021/p2320r0.pdf): The Syntax of Static Reflection
  - [P1240R1](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2019/p1240r1.pdf): Scalable Reflection in C++
  - [P0712R0](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2017/p0712r0.pdf): Implementing	language	support	for	compile-time	
metaprogramming


# March 21th, 2021
## Draft agenda:
| |
|-|
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |
|  |
## Meeting summary: 
### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar
-  Shachar Shemesh

### Minutes:

- We've discussed [P2320R0](https://wg21.link/p2320):	The Syntax of Static Reflection, this topic will have followup on the next meeting.
- We've discussed Shachar's experiance with `D`'s compile time execution, and some plans for `Practical` on that front.

# March 7th, 2021
## Draft agenda:
| |
|-|
| Ways to collect input of usage data & features from the C++ community  |
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |
|  |
## Meeting summary: 
### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar
-  Shachar Shemesh

### Minutes:
- We've discussed Bjarne Stroustrup's new paper: [P2317R0](https://wg21.link/p2317):	C++ - An Invisible foundation of everything
- We've discussed possible ways to survey the community for feedback & features (each have ups & downs, which where discussed):
  - Reachearch stack overflow's common questions & issues.
  - Use of online surveys.
  - Approach tools companies, create a standard for collecting statistical data.
  - Use of forms & mailing lists: https://lists.isocpp.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/faq-discussion.
- Please feel free to email additional solutions!
- We've discussed [P2320R0](https://wg21.link/p2320):	The Syntax of Static Reflection, this topic will have followup on the next meeting.


# February 21th, 2021
## Draft agenda:
| |
|-|
| std::format locals configuration |
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |
|  |
## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Michael Peeri
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar
-  Shachar Shemesh

### Minutes:
- We've discussed std::format: [P2093R3](https://wg21.link/p2093):	Formatted output
- We've considered the locals configuration on the current proposal, as well as the current left-to-right, right-to-left solutions.
- Shachar Shemesh introduced ltr, rtl char insertion.
- We've mentioned std::format's breaking change to C++20, importing into std::format fixes from fmt library: [P1729R2](https://wg21.link/p1729): std::format improvements
- We've discussed Metaprogramming and reflection, and possible requirements & solutions, and the paper: [P2237R0](https://wg21.link/p2237):	Metaprogramming
- Andrei presented the decorators design pattern, python decorators and possible uses in C++

<br/>

# February 7th, 2021
## Draft agenda:
| |
|-|
| Shachar Shemesh - Introduction |
| Shachar - (operator>>) std::scan alternatives |
| Shachar - std::hash for pair & tuple &  alternatives |
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |

## Meeting summary: 
### Attendees:

-  Inbal Levi
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar
-  Shachar Shemesh

### Minutes:
- Shachar have introduced ideas for proposal drafts
- Some relevant existing directions: (Thanks, Dvir)
  - [P1729R0](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2019/p1729r0.html) Text Parsing
  - [N3983](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2014/n3983.pdf) Hashing tuple-like types
  - [P1406R0](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2019/p1406r0.html) Add more std::hash specializations ([Issue](https://github.com/cplusplus/papers/issues/193))
- Inbal have presented reflection use-cases & implementations: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1I2AnkwP1xyICiATbm7bnphoUWUw0nORq/view?usp=sharing
- Please review [January 17th, 2020](#january-17th-2021) meeting for additional notes on reflection
- Next meeting we will overview:
  - std::format, std::scan (since there is a breaking change planned, so there is still time for fixes)
  - P1885 Naming Text Encodings to Demystify Them

<br/>

# January 17th, 2021

## Draft agenda:
| |
|-|
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |
|  |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Michael Peeri
-  Andrei Zissu


### Minutes:

- Andrei have presented decorators on python & C++.
- Inbal have presented reflection use-cases & implementations:  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1I2AnkwP1xyICiATbm7bnphoUWUw0nORq/view?usp=sharing
- During the open discussion few points came up, regarding the different proposals:
  - Consider proposal's impact on Runtime & Compiletime reflection separately.
  - Consider whether the implementation adds to the reflected code (such as in library), or it doesn't (such as in compiler's frontend extention).
  - Consider the utility's overhead (in regard to "zero overhead principle").

- Reflection Proposals, Articles & Implementations:
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2020/n4856.pdf  
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2019/p1240r1.pdf
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2017/p0590r0.pdf
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2017/p0578r0.html
  - https://herbsutter.com/2017/07/26/metaclasses-thoughts-on-generative-c/
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2016/p0385r1.pdf
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2018/p0194r6.html
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2019/p0953r2.html
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2012/n3340.pdf
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2012/n3410.pdf
  - http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2005/n1751.html
  - http://www.garret.ru/cppreflection/docs/reflect.html
  - https://github.com/lock3/meta
  

<br/>

# January 3th, 2021

## Draft agenda:
| |
|-|
| Metaprogramming & Reflection - examples & use cases|
|  |

## Meeting summary: 


### Attendees:

-  Inbal Levi
-  Ran Regev
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Amir Kirsh
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar

### Minutes:

We had an open discussion on the following topics:
* Reflection at compile time (for the compiler) / runtime (for the program)
* Serialization & Deserialization
* Decorators design pattern, and python's decorators
* Reflection overhead (at compilation time for compile-time reflection, at compilation time, size and run-time for run-time reflection)
* How to create a facility which follows the rule of "Don't pay for what you don't use".
* Code generation internal to the language (such as in: C++'s template metaprogramming) vs. external to the language (such as in: https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/2.11.x/, https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter)

#### Action items
* Research decorators syntex and implementations for next meeting (https://wg21.link/p1887 may be useful here) - feel free to join Andrei on this topic.
* Please consider for the next meeting: 
  * Reflection use-cases.
  * Possible facilities and syntex.
  * Possible overhead.
  * Reasoning for having the feature in the library vs. in the language.  
  * Reasoning for having the feature in the C++ library or language vs. external to the language.

#### Useful Links
- Metaprogramming: http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2020/p2237r0.pdf
- Reflection: https://wg21.link/n4856
- Protobuf's serialization & deserialization library (for C++, among other languages): https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/cpptutorial
- Rust serialization & deserialization library: https://serde.rs/
- Reflection on Attributes: http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2020/p1887r1.pdf

<br/>
 
