# WG21 Israel Mirror Committee Meeting Summaries - 2022

WG21 Israel Mirror Committee discussion meetings usually occor every two weeks.
If you're interested in getting involved, please send an email to:   nb@corecpp.org.il

__The next WG21 Israel Mirror Committee meeting is scheduled for: <br/> May 15th, 2022, 19:00-20:00 UTC+2__ 

- [July 17th, 2022](#july-17th-2022)
- [July 3rd, 2022](#july-3rd-2022)
- [June 19th, 2022](#june-19th-2022)
- [May 15th, 2022](#may-15th-2022)
- [May 1st, 2022](#may-1st-2022)
- [April 3rd, 2022](#april-3rd-2022)
- [March 20th, 2022](#march-20th-2022)
- [March 6th, 2022](#march-6th-2022)
- [February 20th, 2022](#february-20th-2022)
- [February 6th, 2022](#february-6th-2022)
- [January 16th, 2022](#january-16th-2022)
- [January 2nd, 2022](#january-2nd-2022)

<br/><br/><br/>

<!--
# August 20th, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
|  |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Becher
-  Michael Peeri

### Minutes:
- 

<br/>
-->

# July 17th, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Reflection Experimental |
| Tuple protocol for C-style arrays T[N] | 
| Allow multiple init-statements | 
| Poison Pills are Too Toxic  |
| C++23 Standard Final Updates | 

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Becher
-  Michael Peeri

### Minutes:
- We've discussed the progress on Reflection, and the progress of the collection of reflection feedback:
   * [Reflection Experimental Usage](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BwJy071WERGQedn8oMa11xnP15XM5l6nKxNS2jABx6Q/edit)
- We've introduced the mechanism behind P2602 and discussed the change (and possible effects on overload resolution)
- Relevant papers:
  * [P2580R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2580r0.html): Tuple protocol for C-style arrays T[N] (Paolo Di Giglio)
  * [P2608R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2608r0.html): Allow multiple init-statements (Justin Cooke)
  * [P2602R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2602r0.html): Poison Pills are Too Toxic (Barry Revzin)
- Next meeting will focus on reflection and Clang internals.


<br/>


# July 3rd, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| The Progress of C++23 |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Becher
-  Michael Peeri

### Minutes:
- We've discussed the progress of C++23
- We've also discussed C++26 expected features
- Continuing our effort of collecting Reflection feedback

<br/>


# June 19th, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Update on CoreC++ | 
| Explicit lifetime management |
| Implicit creation of objects for low-level object manipulation |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Michael Peeri
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Shachar Shemesh
-  Amir Kirsh
-  Noam Weiss

### Minutes:
- We discussed the changes made for C++23 in P2590R0, and the previous paper P0593 which donated changes in C++20.
- There were some suggestions that there is inherited issue with POD, as their lifetime does not require Ctor.
- We also considered the topic of reinterpereted_cast implication on object's lifetime.
- Relevant Links:
  * [P2590R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2590r0.pdf): Explicit lifetime management (Timur Doumler, Richard Smith)
  * [P0593R6](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p0593r6.html): Implicit creation of objects for low-level object manipulation (Richard Smith, Ville Voutilainen)

<br/>

# May 15th, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Update on C++ conferences CFS | 
| = delete("should have a reason"); |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Becher
-  Michael Peeri

### Minutes:
- We discussed the form of the paper, and the benefits of having the problem domain researched
- Relevant links:
  * [P2573R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2573r0.html): = delete("should have a reason"); (Yihe Li)

<br/>


# May 1st, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| A Standard flat_map |
| A Standard flat_set |
| Flat Containers     |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Yehezkel Bernat
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Michael Peeri

### Minutes:
- We've discussed flat_map and flat_set in length:
   - The motivation for the proposals
   - The structure of the papers
   - Design details: container vs. adaptor
   - Few suggestions / queries came up:
     - Exception (weak) guarantees
     - Ctor with initial size

- The suggestions were brought up to Zach (at C++Now), which responded the following:
   - Exception guarantees: a weak guarantee (guarantee no "wrong" actions will be done) and not a strong guarantee, in case of a failure the (whole) container will be erased.
   - Container size in the ctor: Zach thinks that not only implementation-wise but also API-wise the correct thing will be to pass a pre-defined container (with the limited size), otherwise we will have to provide changes in the API for both cases.

<br/>

# April 3rd, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| The technical process of WG21 convernership |
| MDSPAN |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Yehezkel Bernat
-  Tamir Becher
-  Michael Peeri

### Minutes:
- The chair (Inbal) introduced the details of the process of convernership election in WG21
- We discussed MDSPAN proposal, including design details, tradeoffs, and usability as part of BLAS

<br/>

# March 20th, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Contract support -- Working Paper |
| C++ exceptions are becoming more and more problematic |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Tamir Becher
-  Michael Peeri
-  Amir Kirsh

### Minutes:
- Contracts discussion:
   - Addition of the feature to the language (possibly C++26)
   - Difference between macro implementation and compiler attribute implementation
   - Possible syntax (ups and downs)
   - Possiblity of eliminating side effects for consition
- C++ exceptions in multithreaded environment
   - Andrei mentioned he is surprised this only came up now
   - We talked about the fact that 50% of developers don't use exceptions

Both topics will be scheduled for future discussion.

- Links which came up in the discussion:
   - Herb's paper (assert != assume): https://wg21.link/P2064
   - Contract paper: http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2521r1.html
   - P2544R0 C++ exceptions are becoming more and more problematic: http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2544r0.html
   - Low cost deterministic exceptions: https://www.research.ed.ac.uk/files/78829292/low_cost_deterministic_C_exceptions_for_embedded_systems.pdf
   - mdspan in C++: A Case Study in the Integration of Performance Portable Features into International Language Standards: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2010.06474

<br/>


# March 6th, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| 	Language support for customisable functions |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Michael Peeri
-  Ran Regev

### Minutes:
- We discussed Customization Points in general (including P2279)
- We discussed customisable functions:
   - Usability in P2300, and in general
   - Syntax and terminology
- Links:
   - [P2547R0](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2547r0.pdf): Language support for customisable functions (Lewis Baker, Corentin Jabot, Gašper  Ažman)
   - [P1292R0](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2018/p1292r0.html): Customization Point Functions
   - https://twitter.com/atomgalaxy/status/1493666767213940744
   - Why tag_invoke is not the solution I want / Barry Revzin: https://brevzin.github.io/c++/2020/12/01/tag-invoke/

<br/>


# February 20th, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Expercations for C++26 | 
| std::ranges::contains |  
| stride_view |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Ran Regev

### Minutes:
- We discussed C++26 priorities and topics:
   - std::executors (P2300)
   - Networking
   - std::hive
   - Additional ranges
- We discussed std::contains, the question of range algorithm overloads call a member function for better performance (e.g. std::ranges::find to call std::set::find), followup by Dvir.
- Links to topics which came up during the discussion:
   - [P2000R3](https://wg21.link/P2000): Direction For ISO C++ (H.Hinnant, R.Orr,  B.Stroustrup, D.Vandevoorde, M.Wong)
   - [P1774R4](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2021/p1774r4.pdf): Portable assumptions (Timur Doumler)
   - [P2064R0](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2020/p2064r0.pdf): Assumptions (Herb Sutter)
   - Using `goto` In C++ (video by Jason Turner): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ELCc7JYW49k

<br/>


# February 6th, 2022
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Removing exception_ptr from the Receiver Concept (D2532) |
| Abbreviated Parameters (P2424) |
| Basic lambdas for C (P2303) |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki

### Minutes:
- We reviewd the changes to P2300 proposed by D2532, and competability with no-exceptions environments.
- Dvir presented the changes proposed in P2424, pitfalls and limitations (e.g. reflection syntax, readability, types vs. instance, function pointer syntax, if evaluation syntax).
- Dvir will collect feedback on P2424.
- We talked about the proposal P2303, the usecase of porting C code into C++ and limitations (e.g. captures by reference).

- Links to topics which came up during the discussion:
  - Reflection:
     - [Compiler explorer](https://compiler-explorer.com/z/TrYEYhqMK): experimental llvm implementation on godbolt (Matúš Chochlík)
     - [Github source](https://github.com/matus-chochlik/llvm-project): experimental llvm implementation (Matúš Chochlík)

<br/>


# January 16th, 2022

## Agenda:
| |
|-|
|Distributing C++ Module Libraries (P2473R1)|
|std::generator paper (P2502)|

## Meeting summary:
### Attendees:

- Inbal Levi
- Michael Peeri
- Andrei Zissu
- Tamir Becher
- Dvir Yitzchaki
- Eyal Amir
- Ran Regev
- Amir Kirsh
- Yair Friedman

### Minutes:
- We discussed Distributing C++ Module Libraries and upsides of uniform meta data format.
- Continue discussion on std::generator.

<br/>

# January 2nd, 2022

## Agenda:
| |
|-|
|std::generator paper (P2502)|

## Meeting summary:
### Attendees:

- Inbal Levi
- Andrei Zissu
- Michael Peeri
- Eyal Amir
- Tamir Bahar
- Dvir Yitzchaki
- Ran Regev

### Minutes:
- We discussed std::generator design issues:
  -  The question of API and ABI breaks.
  -  Return values (by reference / value)
  -  Connection to `ranges`

- We took the same poll as LEWG, to collect the group's view:
  __POLL: The first generator we release must supprot yielding nested generators
  |F|N|A|
  |-|-|-|
  |2|2|3|
  
  Seems like our direction aligned with LEWG's, but we feel less strong about delivering std::generator in C++23.

<br/>


<!-- Example:
# February 06th, 2021
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |
|  |
## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar
-  Shachar Shemesh

### Minutes:

__POLL:__
|SF|F|N|A|SA|
|-|-|-|-|-|
|0 | 0 |0 |0 |0 |
-->
