# WG21 Israel Discussion Meetings Summaries - 2023

WG21 Israel discussion meetings usually occur every month.
If you're interested in getting involved, please send an email to:   nb@corecpp.org.il

__The next WG21 Israeli discussion group meeting is scheduled for: <br/> Sep 3rd, 2023, 19:00-20:00 UTC+2__ 

- [November 19th, 2023](#november-19th-2023)
- [November 9th, 2023](#november-9th-2023)
- [October 1st, 2023](#october-1st-2023)
- [September 3rd, 2023](#september-3rd-2023)
- [August 6th, 2023](#august-6th-2023)
- [July 2nd, 2023](#july-2nd-2023)
- [May 7th, 2023](#may-7th-2023)
- [April 2nd, 2023](#april-2nd-2023)
- [March 5th, 2023](#march-5th-2023)
- [February 9th, 2023](#february-9th-2023)
- [January 1st, 2023](#january-1st-2023)

<br/><br/><br/>

# November 19th, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Kona 2023 papers |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
- 

### Minutes:
- TBD
Related links
   * [Kona 2023 Trip Report](https://www.reddit.com/r/cpp/comments/17vnfqq/202311_kona_iso_c_committee_trip_report_second/)
   * [P2632R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2632r0.pdf): A plan for better template meta programming facilities in C++26
   * [P2996R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2023/p2996r0.html): Reflection for C++26

<br/>

# November 9th, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| [P2947R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2023/p2947r0.pdf): Contracts must avoid disclosing sensitive information |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
- Inbal Levi
- Andrei Zissu
- Dvir Yizhaki
- Gal Zaban

### Minutes:
- We reviewed the latest updates on "[P2947R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2023/p2947r0.pdf): Contracts must avoid disclosing sensitive information", gathered information. We considered the best course forward.

<br/>

# October 1st, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| [P2961](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2023/p2961r0.pdf): A natural syntax for Contracts | 
| [P2971](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2023/p2971r0.pdf): Implication for C++ |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Ran Regev
-  Dvir Yizhaki
-  Tamir Bahar

### Minutes:
- we discussed the latest updates on "Contracts", from NB members attending SG21
- There were advantages with the syntax, and there's a good chance to have "Contracts" in C++26.
Related links
   * [P2632R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2632r0.pdf): A plan for better template meta programming facilities in C++26

<br/>

# September 3rd, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Linux-Kernel Memory Model |
| Contracts Support |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Ran Regev

### Minutes:
- Inbal talks about the logistics of the status of the committee, and guidelines
- Inbal presents [P0124R8](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2023/p0124r8.html): Linux-Kernel Memory Model
- Ran presents a discussion done in the "contracts" work group - combining contracts with virtual functions and inheritance model
- Inbal talks about the properties of objects vs. properties of functionality (interface)
- Andrei discuss the use cases for such a limitation on contracts
- Ran mentions a use case in which Base contracts should not be enforced on the derived
- The room agrees that the solution of "impl_contract" seems to answer the needs 

Related links
   * [P0124R8](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2023/p0124r8.html): Linux-Kernel Memory Model
   * [P2632R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2632r0.pdf): A plan for better template meta programming facilities in C++26

<br/>

# August 6th, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Reflection updates, next steps |
| Text Parsing |
| noexcept |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Coral Kashri
-  Dvir Yizhaki

### Minutes:
- Inbal presents the status of the Reflection workgroup
- Inbal talks about the logistics of the status of the committee, and assistance guidelines
- Andrei presents the current state of noexcept proposals, and present his view
- Coral noted that the "noreturn" C23 attribute was deprecated and added to C++ in a changed version
- Open discussion

Related links
   * https://isocpp.org/std/the-committee
   * https://isocpp.org/std/submit-a-proposal
   * structure of "exceptions" mechanism (from CppCon2023) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N_-bUNMLGvE
   * [P2662R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2662r0.pdf): Pack Indexing
   * [P2632R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2632r0.pdf): A plan for better template meta programming facilities in C++26

<br/>

# July 2nd, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Reflection Workgroup Updates | 
| Varna trip report |
| Contracts paper (P2811) |
| Security and contracts discussion |
| Open discussion | 

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yizhaki
-  Ronen Fridman
-  Tal Yaakovi
-  Ran Regev

### Minutes:
- Inbal presents the status of the Reflection workgroup
- Ran presents P2811
- Andrei brings up his suggestion for a fix - to mandate the option of hiding the contracts strings from the binary as a requirement for an implementation to be conformant
- Inbal suggests creating a paper with the wording fixes and involving more people from the committee
- Ran volunteers to help Anderi with the paper
- Open discussion

Related links
   * [Static Reflection Usage Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yph7qXXev6U77u2ODOY-xhEkXW611yRt/edit?usp=share_link&ouid=104773479574624321244&rtpof=true&sd=true)
   * [P2811](https://isocpp.org/files/papers/P2811R7.pdf): Contract-Violation Handlers
   * [P2877](https://isocpp.org/files/papers/P2877R0.pdf): Contract Build Modes, Semantics, and Implementation Strategies
   * [varna 2023 Trip Report](https://www.reddit.com/r/cpp/comments/14h4ono/202306_varna_iso_c_committee_trip_report_first/)

<br/>

# May 7th, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Reflection Workgroup Update | 
| Varna meeting update |
| Contracts Violation | 
| Open discussion | 

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yizhaki
-  Ran Regev

### Minutes:
- Inbal presents the status of the Reflection work group, and summarizes the paper proposed in Kona
- Ran summarize the process in groups he has participated in, specifically of contracts
- Andrei mentions there needs to be a few fixes to the current contracts proposal
- Inbal suggests to follow up on that in the next meeting
- Open discussion

Related links
   * [Static Reflection Usage Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yph7qXXev6U77u2ODOY-xhEkXW611yRt/edit?usp=share_link&ouid=104773479574624321244&rtpof=true&sd=true)
   * [P2809R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2023/p2809r0.html): Trivial infinite loops are not Undefined Behavior (JF Bastien)

<br/>

# April 2nd, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Reflection updates, next steps |
| P2695R1: A proposed plan for Contracts in C++ |
| P2656R2: C++ Ecosystem International Standard |
| P2632R0: A plan for better template meta programming facilities in C++26 |
| WG21 Feb Mailing List Open Discussion |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yizhaki
-  Amir Kirsh

### Minutes:
- Inbal presents the history of P2695, and mentions that the milestones are more likely to be achived then in the other two papers. 
- Inbal: The priorities was changed by SG21, I agree with the change
- Andrei mentions he thinks the syntax issue is not secondary to the feature, as attributes can be discarded
- Michael asks for examples, brings up the topic of IFNDR
- Inbal presents the history of P2656, and the current status. There was a lot of support from EWG. SG15 have discussed widely, and a separate standard with 2 years cycle was suggested.
- Inbal presents P2632 and the contexts. Believes the "first tier" will be discussed for C++26. Not sure about the rest
- Andrei: I would like to promote "Reflection"
- Inbal: I would suggest having more work on papers, that's the only way in which we can advance this
- Open discussion on suggested features and on reflection

Related links
- [Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GMyyk3-tFKsVKQ4oeuCklewldXH7cciX_3zc5SKV8mM/edit?usp=sharing): Direction Papers for C++26 (History and overview of P2695, P2656, P2632, by Inbal Levi)

<br/>

# March 5th, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Reflection updates, next steps |
| P2771: Towards memory safety in C++ |
| P2782: A proposal for a type trait to detect if value initialization can be achieved by zero-filling |
| P2784: Not halting the program after detected contract violation |
| PXXXXR0: Opting out of zero-initialization of automatic objects should be hard |
| WG21 Feb Mailing List Open Discussion |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Yehezkel Bernat
-  Ran Regev

### Minutes:
- Andrei presents P2771, P2782, P2784 in the context of Safety
- Inbal mentions the first paper was discussed during Issaquah (Safety and security telecon), and got positive support. She also mentions this topic is focused on by the committee
- Ran talks about Opting out of zero-init of atomic objects. Views easiness of use as a disadvantage, as we don't want people to opt out. Mentions the option of having in addition to syntax a flag by the compiler. Some discussion on if this will increase the complexity of the implementation
- Inbal says it isn't connected - the implementation doesn't have to use pre-processing just because a flag is set. These are separate topics.
- Tamir mentions he doesn't like the idea of having two different indications for activating a feature
- Inbal agrees this can be a source of errors
- Discussion on the paper and possible improvements 

<br/>

# February 9th, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Reflection updates, next steps |
| WG21 Issaquah Meeting Updates & Discussion |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Yehezkel Bernat
-  Ran Regev
-  Dvir Yizhaki

### Minutes:
- Inbal talks briefly about updates from the Reflection Work Group meeting
- Inbal talks about Yehezkel's paper, and the great discussion it encoraged. The examples from the paper were discussed by Tim, Barry, Louis Dionne, and me. There's a followup paper by Tim: [P2799R0](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2023/p2799r0.html): Closed ranges may be a problem; breaking counted_iterator is not the solution.
- Inbal: I believe we can have a wider fix to address these issues. Creating an adaptor will be useful. 
- Yehezkel presented the paper and the discussion from his prespective. Says even though the paper wasn't accepted, he enjoyed having it discussed in SG9 and LEWG.
- Andrei and Dvir discuss about alternative solutions and the details of the proposed solution in the paper
- Inbal talks about the status of current and future C++ and an overview of WG21's work in Issaquah, including the "Safety" topic
- Ran talks about his experiance in the WG21 meeting and the "Safety" discussion, and about the experiance of presenting lexographical_three_ways in sG9. Mentions a chat with Bjarne about concepts.

<br/>

# January 1st, 2023
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Reflection updates, next steps |
| [P2406](https://isocpp.org/files/papers/D2406R1.html): Fix `counted_iterator` interaction with input iterators |
| Safety / Contracts papers |

## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Shachar Shemesh
-  Michael Peeri
-  Yehezkel Bernat
-  Dan Raviv

### Minutes:
- Inbal presented the plan of a Reflection Work Group meeting
- Yehezkel presented latest updates to his paper, we discussed possible direction for solutions
- Andrei brought up the possibility of a breaking change
- Inbal presented the status of future C++ and an overview of the WG21 Kona discussion
- Inbal brought up few possible directions and topics which will be in focuse in future C++ standards
- Andrei presented briefly the papers: 
   - [P2730](https://isocpp.org/files/papers/P2730R0.html): variable scope
   - [P2658](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p2658r1.html): temporary storage class specifiers 
- We've desided to dedicate a future meeting to safety and contracts

<br/>


<!-- Example:
# February 06th, 2021
## Agenda:
| |
|-|
| Metaprogramming & Reflection |
|  |
## Meeting summary: 

### Attendees:
-  Inbal Levi
-  Andrei Zissu
-  Michael Peeri
-  Dvir Yitachaki
-  Tamir Bahar
-  Shachar Shemesh

### Minutes:

__POLL:__
|SF|F|N|A|SA|
|-|-|-|-|-|
|0 | 0 |0 |0 |0 |
-->
